# MODEL1006230105: Koivumaki2009_SERCAATPase_long

## Installation

Download this repository, and install with distutils

`python setup.py install`

Or, install using pip

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/MODEL1006230105.git`

To install a specific version (in this example, from the 2014-09-16 BioModels release)

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/MODEL1006230105.git@20140916`


# Model Notes


This a model from the article:  
**Modelling sarcoplasmic reticulum calcium ATPase and its regulation in cardiac myocytes.**   
Koivumaki JT, Takalo J, Korhonen T, Tavi P, Weckstrom M. _Philos Transact A
Math Phys Eng Sci_ 2009 Jun 13;367(1896):2181-202
[19414452](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19414452) ,  
**Abstract:**   
When developing large-scale mathematical models of physiology, some reduction
in complexity is necessarily required to maintain computational efficiency. A
prime example of such an intricate cell is the cardiac myocyte. For the
predictive power of the cardiomyocyte models, it is vital to accurately
describe the calcium transport mechanisms, since they essentially link the
electrical activation to contractility. The removal of calcium from the
cytoplasm takes place mainly by the Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchanger, and the
sarcoplasmic reticulum Ca(2+) ATPase (SERCA). In the present study, we review
the properties of SERCA, its frequency-dependent and beta-adrenergic
regulation, and the approaches of mathematical modelling that have been used
to investigate its function. Furthermore, we present novel theoretical
considerations that might prove useful for the elucidation of the role of
SERCA in cardiac function, achieving a reduction in model complexity, but at
the same time retaining the central aspects of its function. Our results
indicate that to faithfully predict the physiological properties of SERCA, we
should take into account the calcium-buffering effect and reversible function
of the pump. This 'uncomplicated' modelling approach could be useful to other
similar transport mechanisms as well.

This model was taken from the [CellML
repository](http://www.cellml.org/models) and automatically converted to SBML.  
The original model was: [ **Koivumaki JT, Takalo J, Korhonen T, Tavi P,
Weckstrom M. (2009) - version=1.0**
](http://models.cellml.org/exposure/3d5593ef7cb34144d2dbb9d617094026)  
The original CellML model was created by:  
**Geoffrey Nunns**   
gnunns1@jhu.edu  
The University of Auckland  

This model originates from BioModels Database: A Database of Annotated
Published Models (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/). It is copyright (c)
2005-2011 The BioModels.net Team.  
To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.

In summary, you are entitled to use this encoded model in absolutely any
manner you deem suitable, verbatim, or with modification, alone or embedded it
in a larger context, redistribute it, commercially or not, in a restricted way
or not..  
  
To cite BioModels Database, please use: [Li C, Donizelli M, Rodriguez N,
Dharuri H, Endler L, Chelliah V, Li L, He E, Henry A, Stefan MI, Snoep JL,
Hucka M, Le Nov√®re N, Laibe C (2010) BioModels Database: An enhanced, curated
and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic models. BMC Syst
Biol., 4:92.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20587024)


